Sometimes it's the journey that teaches you a lot about your destination.
Jealousy is just love and hate at the same time.
'Perfection' to me is, I walk away from a situation and say, 'I did everything I could do right there. There was nothing more that I could do.' I was a hundred percent, like the meter was at the top. There was nothing else I could have done. You know? Like, I worked as hard as I possibly could have. That's perfection.
I'm not confrontational, but if someone challenges, I'm not going to back down.
I've never been reckless - it's always calculated. I'm mischievous, but I'm calculated.
A relationship can give you a gut wrenching feeling sometimes. It's a real emotional ride.
I don't really have a gimmick or a 'thing.' I'm one of the few artists who gets to be himself every day.
There will be days when I walk in an arena and people will cheer and then there might be days when I walk in an arena and people might boo, but it all sounds the same to me because it's all just noise that lets me know that I'm relevant.
When it comes to knowing what to say, to charm, I always had it.
When I think of myself, I think of Toronto. My music would never sound the way it does if it weren't for Toronto.
My mother made me truly appreciate women.
My life is mine to remember.
Trying to meet new women, it's always a little more difficult as opposed to calling somebody I knew that's single and trying to rebuild that connection.
Reviews condition people. At the end of the day, a lot of human minds are malleable. They can be easily shaped with strong words.
I wake up in the morning and my heart is light, man. It's not heavy. I don't have skeletons in the closet on their way out.
I'm actually a very honest person, and sometimes I end up like, 'Man, I said too much.' It's hard for me not to tell the truth when you ask me.
I like sweaters. I have a sweater obsession, I guess.
Me and my dad are friends. We're cool. I'll never be disappointed again, because I don't expect anything anymore from him. I just let him exist, and that's how we get along.
The ideal girl is driven, working on something other than modeling or being a singer.
I'd rather tell you how I really feel.
Patience is key for getting over a breakup. That, and trailing off your interaction after the breakup.
Rappers aren't the really rich ones. We all have nice houses with studios and cars, but you need a piece of someone's business to be super wealthy.
My favorite artists always documented emotion. Marvin Gaye and Al Green and Sade and Aaliyah.
You know, there are artists who are 35 and up that still make rap and that still works for them. I don't know if I want to be that guy.
I'm mischievous, but I'm calculated.
I push myself in a lot of aspects when I write a song. I write a piece and where most people would stop and say, 'Oh, that's the hook right there,' I'll move that to the first four bars of the verse and do a new hook.
I feel connected to my generation through the music, but I also fear for us. We're in a very self-destructive state where we're addicted to outside opinions and we all feel like we have fans.
I'm not going to lie; listen, I'm nice at basketball.
I'm dying to be a great dad one day, whenever that day comes.
I respect Chris Brown. I'd like to call myself a friend - I don't know if I'm allowed to do that.
To go indie is a thing. But to put an album in the stores, you need a distribution label.
When you're on the road and moving city to city, when someone isn't there at the end of the night, you feel empty.
I feel that when you care about your music, taking risks is something you should do to keep things exciting.
I just have a thing in my brain that when I'm about to do something that's genuine or authentic, I think of it in song form. I'll be like, 'Yo, this is a human emotion that no one talks about.'
I don't measure my success anymore by the Grammys. I can't because I'll just end up crushed.
It's important for me to let my fans know I really don't care. I'm confident.
I would say that I'm more moved by melody, even though I love to rap.
Kanye West is my favorite artist.
Surface R&B doesn't work any more. The whole heartthrob thing, songs about unrealistic love and tearing your shirt off every show - that's not really where it's at any more. It's becoming harder for those guys to sell records, and harder for them to succeed.
I like Ryan Gosling as an actor. I watch all of his movies, and he's Canadian and I just like his swag. I read his interviews and I'm a big fan of his.
You do get certain publications in the States where, if things don't go according to plan, they flip the story and it becomes very negative.
I have an urge to communicate. I think I'm a change from what it would be like dating a normal guy who doesn't talk too much.
When I'm writing, I'm thinking about how the songs are going to play live. Fifty bars of rap don't translate onstage. No matter how potent the music, you lose the crowd. They want a hook; they want to sing your stuff back to you.
There are a lot of good women in New York.
I try to really capitalize off of what other rappers really can't do. There are opportunities that rappers I love simply can't get, because... you know... I don't have the tattoos; I have a different image.
I'm cool with Jay-Z. Jay-Z is genuinely my friend.
There were people who incorporated melody before me, but I would deem myself the first person to successfully rap and sing.
My dad is a great writer. Naturally talented, naturally charming. He embodies that back-in-the-day cool.
People like to build their own story about my life. I don't know if it makes them feel better, or if it makes it okay for them to not like me, but the last thing I grew up as was rich.
